*readline.txt*	Readline-style mappings for command-line mode

Author:		Elias Åstrom <github.com/ryvnf>
License:	The VIM LICENSE (see |license|).  This plugin is distributed
		under the same conditions as Vim itself.

==============================================================================
INTRO						*readline*

This plugin will add a subset of Readline's default bindings to Vim's
command-line mode.  It implements the most commonly used functionality from
Readline, which includes moving and deleting by words and some other stuff.

The word movement and deletion commands implemented by this plugin will skip
word delimiters, this is different from what Vim usually does.  _ (underscore)
is also treated as a word delimiter.  These changes are made to be more like
Readline, which also has this behavior.

Some mappings will override default mappings (like CTRL-F).  For most of these
mappings, the default mapping is still accessible through another mappings
(like CTRL-X CTRL-E).  For others it is possible to set a variable to preserve
the default mapping.

==============================================================================
MAPPINGS					*readline-mappings*

						*readline-c_CTRL-B*
CTRL-B			Move cursor left.

						*readline-c_CTRL-F*
CTRL-F			Move cursor right.  Use CTRL-X CTRL-E to access the
			overridden default mapping.

						*readline-c_META-B*
<M-B>			Move cursor back to start of word.  Word is delimited
			by non-alphanumeric characters.

						*readline-c_META-F*
<M-F>			Move cursor forward to end of word.  Word is delimited
			by non-alphanumeric characters.

						*readline-c_CTRL-A*
CTRL-A			Move cursor to beginning of line.  Use <M-*> to access
			the overridden default mapping.

						*readline-c_CTRL-E*
CTRL-E			Move cursor to end of line.

						*readline-c_CTRL-H*
CTRL-H		or				*readline-c_BS*
<BS>			Delete character before cursor.

						*readline-c_CTRL-D*
CTRL-D			Delete character under cursor.  Use <M-?> to access
			the overridden default mapping.

						*readline-c_META-CTRL-H*
<M-C-H>		or				*readline-c_META-BS*
<M-BS>			Delete back to start of previous word.  Word is
			delimited by non-alphanumeric characters.

						*readline-c_CTRL-W*
CTRL-W			Delete to beginning of previous word.  Word is
			delimited by spaces.

						*readline-c_META-D*
<M-D>			Delete forward to end of word.  Word is delimited by
			non-alphanumeric characters.

						*readline-c_CTRL-X_CTRL-H*
CTRL-X CTRL-H	or				*readline-c_CTRL-X_BS*
CTRL-X <BS>	or				*readline-c_CTRL-U*
CTRL-U			Delete to beginning of line.

						*readline-c_CTRL-K*
CTRL-K			Delete to end of line.  Use `let g:readline_ctrl_k = 0`
			in your vimrc to disable this mapping and preserve the
			default |c_CTRL-K| mapping.

						*readline-c_CTRL-Y*
CTRL-Y			Yank (paste) previously deleted text.  Only text
			deleted through commands which operate on words or
			lines can be recalled.

						*readline-c_CTRL-T*
CTRL-T			Transpose characters before the cursor.  Use
			`let g:readline_ctrl_t = 0` in your vimrc to disable
			this mapping and preserve the default |c_CTRL-T|
			mapping when 'incsearch' is active.

						*readline-c_META-T*
<M-T>			Transpose words before the cursor.

						*readline-c_META-U*
<M-U>			Make word in front of cursor UPPERCASE.

						*readline-c_META-L*
<M-L>			Make word in front of cursor lowercase.

						*readline-c_META-C*
<M-C>			Make word in front of cursor Capitalized.

						*readline-c_META-#*
<M-#>			Comment out the current command line and execute it.
			This will put the line in history for later retrival,
			without running it.

						*readline-c_META-=*
<M-=>		or				*readline-c_META-?*
<M-?>			Display all names that match pattern in front of
			cursor.  Replacement for the default |c_CTRL-D|
			mapping which gets overridden.

						*readline-c_META-star*
<M-*>			Insert all names that match pattern in front of
			cursor.  Replacement for the default |c_CTRL-A|
			mapping which gets overridden.

						*readline-c_CTRL-X_CTRL-E*
CTRL-X CTRL-E		Open command-line window.  See |cmdline| for more
			information.  Replacement for the default |c_CTRL-F|
			mapping which gets overridden.

==============================================================================
META KEY					*readline-meta*

This plugin uses <Esc> for META mappings.  This means that in order to trigger
the <M-Key> mapping, the input <Esc><Key> should be received.  The reason for
this is that Vim cannot distinguish some accented characters like ä from
META-keycodes.  Most terminal emulators can be configured to send <Esc><Key>
when <Key> is pressed and the ALT-modifier is held.  This is highly
recommended for the plugin to work properly.

In some situations (like in the graphical Vim GUI) that is not possible.  If
you want to access the mappings using the ALT or META modifier in these
situations, you can enable it by using `let g:readline_meta = 1` in your
vimrc.  This might interfere with your ability to insert characters like ä on
the command-line.

By default it is not possible to trigger mappings by pressing <Esc> followed
by another key sequentially.  This is because all the keys in the mapping have
to be received simultaneously.  If you want to be able to trigger mappings by
pressing <Esc> manually, you can enable it by using `let g:readline_esc = 1`
in your vimrc.  When this is enabled it is no longer possible to quit the
command-line using <Esc>.

==============================================================================
INSERT MODE					*readline-insert*

This plugin does not add Readline-style commands to insert mode.  This is
because it is not very useful, as experienced Vim users will use normal mode
for these commands.  Implementing these mappings in insert mode would also
override a lot of useful default Vim bindings.  Some mappings also use <Esc>
which is known to cause problems with mode switching if mapped in insert-mode.

==============================================================================
BUGS						*readline-bugs*

If happen to find a bug, please create issue at
<github.com/ryvnf/readline.vim>.

 vim:tw=78:ts=8:ft=help:norl:
